---
# YAML header
ignore_macros: true
---

<!-- git-snippet: enable -->

# Helm Chart Values


This document discusses each of the fields present in the `values.yaml` that can be used to deploy with Helm.
To see how to use a helm values files to customize your deployment, refer to our [Helm Deployment Documentation](../../deploy-manage/deploy/helm-install/) section.

!!! Note
    You rarely need to specify all the fields. Most fields either come with sensible defaults or can be empty.
    Values that are unchanged from the defaults can be omitted from the values file you supply at installation.
    
    Take a look at our deployment instructions [locally](../../getting-started/local-installation/) or [in the cloud](../../deploy-manage/deploy/quickstart/) to identify which of those are required for your deployment target.

## Values.yaml
The following section displays the complete list of fields available in the [values.yaml](https://github.com/pachyderm/pachyderm/blob/2.3.x/etc/helm/pachyderm/values.yaml). 
Each section is further detailed in its own sub-chapter. 


```yaml
{{ gitsnippet('pachyderm/pachyderm', 'etc/helm/pachyderm/values.yaml', '2.3.x') }}
```
### deployTarget

`deployTarget` is where you're deploying pachyderm. It configures the storage backend to use and cloud provider settings.
It must be one of:

- `GOOGLE`
- `AMAZON`
- `MINIO`
- `MICROSOFT`
- `CUSTOM`
- `LOCAL`

### global

#### global.postgreSQL

This section is to configure the connection to the postgresql database. By default, it uses the included postgres service.

- `postgresqlUsername` is the username to access the pachyderm and dex databases
- `postgresqlPassword` to access the postgresql database. If blank, a value will be generated by the postgres subchart
-  `postgresqlExistingSecretKey` the secret name of the secret containing `postgresqlPassword` (key: `postgresql-postgres-password`)
When using autogenerated value for the initial install, it must be pulled from the postgres secret and added to values.yaml for future helm upgrades.
- `postgresqlDatabase` is the database name where pachyderm data will be stored
- `postgresqlHost` is the postgresql database host to connect to.
- `postgresqlPort` is the postgresql database port to connect to.
- `postgresqlSSL` is the SSL mode to use for connecting to Postgres, for the default local postgres it is disabled

#### global.imagePullSecrets

`imagePullSecrets` allow you to pull images from private repositories, these will also be added to pipeline workers https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/pull-image-private-registry/

Example:
```yaml
  imagePullSecrets:
    - regcred
```
### console

This section is to configure the Pachyderm UI (`console`). It is enabled by default.

- `console.enabled` turns on the deployment of the UI.

- `console.image` sets the image to use for the console. This can be left at the defaults unless instructed.

- `console.podLabels` specifies labels to add to the console pod.

- `console.resources` specifies resources and limits in standard kubernetes format. It is left unset by default.

- `console.service.labels` specifies labels to add to the console service.

- `console.service.type` specifies the Kubernetes type of the console service. The default is `ClusterIP`.

#### console.config

This is where the primary configuration settings for the console are configured, including authentication.

- `config.reactAppRuntimeIssuerURI` this is the pachd oauth address thats accesible to clients outside of the cluster itself. When running local with `kubectl port-forward` this would be set to localhost (`"http://localhost:30658/"`). Otherwiswe this has to be an address acessible to clients.

- `config.oauthRedirectURI` this is the oauth callback address within console that the pachd oauth service would redirect to. It's the URL of console with `/oauth/callback/?inline=true` appended. Running locally its therefore `"http://localhost:4000/oauth/callback/?inline=true"`.

- `config.oauthClientID` the client identifier for the Console with pachd

- `config.oauthClientSecret` the secret configured for the client with pachd
- `config.oauthClientSecretSecretName` the secret name of the secret containing `oauthClientSecret` (key: `OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET`)
- `config.graphqlPort` the http port that the console service will be accessible on.

- `config.disableTelemetry` this can be set to true to opt out of console's analytics and error data collection.

### etcd

This section is to configure the etcd cluster in the deployment.

- `etcd.image` sets the image to use for the etcd. This can be left at the defaults unless instructed.

- `etcd.podLabels` specifies labels to add to the etcd pods.

- `etcd.resources` specifies resources and limits in standard kubernetes format. It is left unset by default.

- `etcd.dynamicNodes` sets the number of nodes in the etcd StatefulSet. The default is 1.

- `etcd.storageClass` indicates the etcd should use an existing StorageClass for its storage. If left blank, a storageClass will be created.

- `etcd.storageSize` specifies the size of the volume to use for etcd. Etcd does not require much space. For storage that scales IOPs with size, the size must be set large enought to provide at least 1000 IOPs for performance. If you do not specify, it will default to 256Gi on Azure and 100Gi on GCP/AWS for that reason.

- `etcd.service.labels` specifies labels to add to the console service.
- `etcd.service.annotations` specifies annotations to add to the etcd service.
- `etcd.service.type` specifies the Kubernetes type of the etcd service. The default is `ClusterIP`.

### enterpriseServer

This section is to configure the Enterprise Server deployment (if desired).

- `enterpriseServer.enabled` turns on the deployment of the Enterprise Server. It is disabled by default.

- `enterpriseServer.service.type` specifies the Kubernetes type of the console service. The default is `ClusterIP`.

- `enterpriseServer.resources` specifies resources and limits in standard kubernetes format. It is left unset by default.

- `enterpriseServer.podLabels` specifies labels to add to the enterpriseServer pod.

- `enterpriseServer.image` sets the image to use for the etcd. This can be left at the defaults unless instructed.

#### enterpriseServer.tls

There are three options for configuring TLS on the Enterprise Server under `enterpriseServer.tls`.

1. `disabled`. TLS is not used.
1. `enabled`, using an existing secret. You must set enabled to true and provide a secret name where the exiting cert and key are stored.
1. `enabled`, using a new secret. You must set enabled to true and `newSecret.create` to true and specify a secret name, and a cert and key in string format

### ingress

!!! Attention
    `ingress` will be removed from the helm chart once the deployment of Pachyderm with a proxy becomes mandatory.

This section is to configure an ingress resource for an existing ingress controller.

- `ingress.enabled` turns on the creation of the ingress for the UI.

- `ingress.annotations` specifies annotations to add to the ingress resource.

- `host` your domain name, external IP address, or localhost.

- `uriHttpsProtoOverride` when set to true, uriHttpsProtoOverride will add the https protocol to the ingress URI routes without configuring certs
#### ingress.tls

There are three options for configuring TLS on the ingress under `ingress.tls`.

1. `disabled`. TLS is not used.
1. `enabled`, using an existing secret. You must set enabled to true and provide a secret name where the exiting cert and key are stored.
1. `enabled`, using a new secret. You must set enabled to true and `newSecret.create` to true and specify a secret name, and a cert and key in string format

### pachd

This section is to configure the pachd deployment.

- `pachd.enabled` turns on the deployment of pachd.

- `pachd.image` sets the image to use for pachd. This can be left at the defaults unless instructed.

- `pachd.logFormat` sets the logging format (`text` or `json`). `json` is default.

- `pachd.logLevel` sets the logging level. `info` is default.

- `pachd.lokiLogging` enables Loki logging if set.

- `pachd.podLabels` specifies labels to add to the pachd pod.

- `pachd.resources` specifies resources and limits in standard kubernetes format. It is left unset by default.

- `pachd.requireCriticalServersOnly` only requires the critical pachd servers to startup and run without errors.

- `pachd.service.labels` specifies labels to add to the pachd service.

- `pachd.service.type` specifies the Kubernetes type of the pachd service. The default is `ClusterIP`.

!!! Attention
    `pachd.externalService` will be removed from the helm chart once the deployment of Pachyderm with a proxy becomes mandatory.

- `pachd.externalService.enabled` creates a kubernetes service of type `loadBalancer` that is safe to expose externally.

- `pachd.externalService.loadBalancerIP` optionally supply the existing IP address of the load balancer.

- `pachd.externalService.apiGRPCPort` is the desired api GRPC port (30650 is default).

- `pachd.externalService.s3GatewayPort` is the desired s3 gateway port (30600 is default).

- `pachd.externalService.annotations` add your service annotations.

- `pachd.activateEnterpriseMember` specifies whether to activate with an enterprise server.
  If pachd.activateEnterpriseMember is set, enterprise will be activated and connected to an existing enterprise server.

- `activateAuth` If pachd.activateAuth is set, auth will be bootstrapped by the config-job. Defaults to true.

- `pachd.enterpriseLicenseKey` specifies the enterprise license key if you have one. 
  If pachd.enterpriseLicenseKey is set, enterprise will be activated. Alternatively, you can pass this value in a secret.

- `pachd.enterpriseLicenseKeySecretName` specifies the secret name containing pachd License Key.

- `pachd.rootToken` is the auth token used to communicate with the cluster as the root user. If a secret name is not provided in `rootTokenSecretName`, a secret containing `rootToken` (or a randomly generated value if empty) will be created on install and stored in the k8s secret `pachyderm-auth` under the key `rootToken`

- `pachd.rootTokenSecretName` specifies the secret name containing pachd root token secret (key: `rootToken`).

- `pachd.enterpriseSecret` specifies the enterprise cluster secret. If a secret name is not provided in `enterpriseSecretSecretName`, a secret containing `enterpriseSecret` (or a randomly generated value if empty) will be created on install and stored in the k8s secret `pachyderm-enterprise` under the key `enterprise-secret`

- `pachd.enterpriseSecretSecretName` specifies the secret name containing pachd enterpriseSecret (key: `enterprise-secret`).

- `pachd.oauthClientID` specifies the Oauth client ID representing pachd. Defaults to "pachd".

- `pachd.oauthClientSecret` specifies the Oauth client secret. If a secret name is not provided in `oauthClientSecretSecretName`, a secret containing `oauthClientSecret` (or a randomly generated value if empty) will be created on install and stored in the k8s secret `pachyderm-auth` under the key `auth-config`

- `pachd.oauthClientSecretSecretName` specifies the secret name containing pachd Oauth client secret (key: `auth-config`).

- `pachd.oauthRedirectURI` specifies the Oauth redirect URI served by pachd. Example  `http://<PACHD-IP>:30657/authorization-code/callback`.

- `pachd.enterpriseRootToken` only used if pachd.activateEnterpriseMember == true
- `pachd.enterpriseRootTokenSecretName` specifies the secret name containing `enterpriseRootToken`

- `pachd.enterpriseServerAddress` only used if pachd.activateEnterpriseMember == true
- `pachd.enterpriseCallbackAddress` only used if pachd.activateEnterpriseMember == true

- `pachd.localhostIssuer` specifies to pachd whether dex is embedded in its process. This value can be set to "true", "false", or "".

If any of `rootToken`,`enterpriseSecret`, or `oauthClientSecret` are blank, a value will be generated automatically. 

- `pachd.serviceAccount.create` creates a kubernetes service account for pachd. Default is true.

- `pachd.rbac.create`  indicates whether RBAC resources should be created. Default is true.

#### pachd.storage

This section of `pachd` configures the back end storage for pachyderm.

- `storage.backend` configures the storage backend to use. It must be one of GOOGLE, AMAZON, MINIO, MICROSOFT or LOCAL. This is set automatically if deployTarget is GOOGLE, AMAZON, MICROSOFT, or LOCAL.

- `storage.putFileConcurrencyLimit` sets the maximum number of files to upload or fetch from remote sources (HTTP, blob storage) using PutFile concurrently. 

- `storage.uploadConcurrencyLimit` sets the maximum number of concurrent object storage uploads per Pachd instance.
##### pachd.storage.amazon

If you're using Amazon S3 as your storage backend, configure it here.

- `storage.amazon.bucket` sets the S3 bucket to use.

- `storage.amazon.cloudFrontDistribution` sets the CloudFront distribution in the storage secrets.

- `storage.amazon.customEndpoint` sets a custom s3 endpoint.

- `storage.amazon.disableSSL` disables SSL.

- `storage.amazon.id` sets the Amazon access key ID to use.

- `storage.amazon.logOptions` sets various log options in Pachyderm’s internal S3 client.  Comma-separated list containing zero or more of: 'Debug', 'Signing', 'HTTPBody', 'RequestRetries','RequestErrors', 'EventStreamBody', or 'all' (case-insensitive).  See 'AWS SDK for Go' docs for details.

- `storage.amazon.maxUploadParts` sets the maximum number of upload parts. Default is `10000`.

- `storage.amazon.verifySSL` performs SSL certificate verification.

- `storage.amazon.partSize` sets the part size for object storage uploads. It has to be a string due to Helm and YAML parsing integers as floats.

- `storage.amazon.region` sets the AWS region to use.

- `storage.amazon.retries` sets the number of retries for object storage requests..

- `storage.amazon.reverse` reverses object storage paths.

- `storage.amazon.secret` sets the Amazon secret access key to use.

- `storage.amazon.timeout` sets the timeout for object storage requests.

- `storage.amazon.token` optionally sets the Amazon token to use.

- `storage.amazon.uploadACL` sets the upload ACL for object storage uploads.

##### pachd.storage.google

If you're using Google Storage Buckets as your storage backend, configure it here.

- `storage.google.bucket` sets the object bucket to use.

- `storage.google.cred` is a string containing a GCP service account private key, in object (JSON or YAML) form.  A simple way to pass this on the command line is with the set-file flag, e.g.:

  ```shell
  helm install pachd -f my-values.yaml --set-file storage.google.cred=creds.json pach/pachyderm
  ```

  Example:

  ```yaml
  cred: |
    {
      "type": "service_account",
      "project_id": "…",
      "private_key_id": "…",
      "private_key": "-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\n…\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----\n",
      "client_email": "…@….iam.gserviceaccount.com",
      "client_id": "…",
      "auth_uri": "https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/auth",
      "token_uri": "https://oauth2.googleapis.com/token",
      "auth_provider_x509_cert_url": "https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v1/certs",
      "client_x509_cert_url": "https://www.googleapis.com/robot/v1/metadata/x509/…%40….iam.gserviceaccount.com"
    }
  ```

- `storage.local.hostpath` indicates the path on the host where the PFS metadata will be stored.
- `storage.local.requireRoot`
##### pachd.storage.microsoft

If you're using Microsoft Blob Storage as your storage backend, configure it here.

- `storage.microsoft.container` sets the blob storage container.

- `storage.microsoft.id` sets the access key ID to use.

- `storage.microsoft.secret` sets the secret access key to use.

##### pachd.storage.minio

If you're using [MinIO](https://min.io/){target=_blank} as your storage backend, configure it here.

- `storage.minio.bucket` sets the bucket to use.

- `storage.minio.endpoint` sets the object endpoint.

- `storage.minio.id` sets the access key ID to use.

- `storage.minio.secret` sets the secret access key to use.

- `storage.minio.secure` set to true for a secure connection.

- `storage.minio.signature` sets the signature version to use.

#### pachd.tls

There are three options for configuring TLS on pachd under `pachd.tls`.

1. `disabled`. TLS is not used.
1. `enabled`, using an existing secret. You must set enabled to true and provide a secret name where the exiting cert and key are stored.
1. `enabled`, using a new secret. You must set enabled to true and `newSecret.create` to true and specify a secret name, and a cert and key in string format.

### pgbouncer

This section is to configure the PGBouncer Postgres connection pooler.

- `service.type` specifies the Kubernetes type of the pgbouncer service. The default is `ClusterIP`.

- `resources` specifies resources and limits in standard kubernetes format. It is left unset by default.

- `maxConnections` defaults to 1000
### postgresql

This section is to configure the PostgresQL Subchart, if used.

- `enabled`  controls whether to install postgres or not. If not using the built in Postgres, you must specify a Postgresql database server to connect to in `global.postgresql`. The enabled value is watched by the 'condition' set on the Postgresql dependency in Chart.yaml

- `image.tag` sets the postgres version. Leave at the default unless instructed otherwise.

- `initdbScripts` creates the inital `dex` database that's needed for pachyderm. Leave at the default unless instructed otherwise.

- `persistence.storageClass` specifies the storage class for the postgresql Persistent Volume (PV)

!!! Note "More"
    See notes in Bitnami chart values.yaml file for more information.
    More info for setting up storage classes on various cloud providers:

      - AWS: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/storage-classes.html
      - GCP: https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/persistent-volumes/ssd-pd
      - Azure: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/concepts-storage

- `storageSize` specifies the size of the volume to use for postgresql.

!!! Attention
    - Recommended Minimum Disk size for Microsoft/Azure: 256Gi  - 1,100 IOPS https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/details/managed-disks/
    - Recommended Minimum Disk size for Google/GCP: 50Gi        - 1,500 IOPS https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/disks/performance
    - Recommended Minimum Disk size for Amazon/AWS: 500Gi (GP2) - 1,500 IOPS https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ebs-volume-types.html

### cloudsqlAuthProxy

This section is to configure the CloudSQL Auth Proxy for deploying Pachyderm on GCP with CloudSQL.

- `connectionName` may be found by running `gcloud sql instances describe INSTANCE_NAME --project PROJECT_ID`

- `serviceAccount` is the account to use to connect to the cloudSql instance.

- `enabled`  controls whether to deploy the cloudsqlAuthProxy. Default is false.

- `port` is the cloudql database port to expose. The default is `5432`

- `service.type` specifies the Kubernetes type of the cloudsqlAuthProxy service. The default is `ClusterIP`.

### oidc

This section is to configure the oidc settings within pachyderm.

- `oidc.issuerURI` specifies the Oauth Issuer. Inferred if running locally or using ingress.

- `oidc.requireVerifiedEmail` specifies whether email verification is required for authentication.

- `oidc.IDTokenExpiry` specifies the duration where OIDC ID Tokens are valid.

- `oidc.RotationTokenExpiry` if set, enables OIDC Rotation Tokens and specifies the duration where they are valid.

- `oidc.upstreamIDPs` specifies a list of Identity Providers to use for authentication.
- `oidc.upstreamIDPsSecretName` specifies the secret name of the secret containing `upstreamIDPs` (key: `upstream-idps`)

- `oidc.mockIDP` when set to `true`, specifes to ignore `upstreamIDPs` in favor of a placeholder IDP with a username/password preset to "admin" and "password".

- `oidc.userAccessibleOauthIssuerHost` specifies the Oauth issuer's address host that's used in the Oauth authorization redirect URI. This value is only necessary in local settings or anytime the registered Issuer address isn't accessible outside the cluster.

### proxy

The proxy is a service to handle all Pachyderm traffic (S3, Console, OIDC, Dex, GRPC) on a single
port exposed directly to the Internet.

  - `proxy.enabled` when set to `true`, create a proxy deployment and a service to expose it. If
  ingress is also enabled, any ingress traffic will be routed through the proxy before being sent.
  
  - `proxy.replicas` : The number of proxy replicas to run.  1 is a default but can be increased
  for higher availability. Each replica can handle 50,000 concurrent connections.There is an affinity rule to prefer scheduling the proxy pods **on the same node as pachd**, so a number here that matches the number of pachd replicas is a fine configuration.
  
!!! Note 
      We don't guarantee to keep the proxy<->pachd traffic on-node or even in-region.
  
  - `proxy.image` specifies the details of the proxy image to pull.  THe following fields can be left at the defaults unless instructed.

    - `proxy.image.repository` the proxy image repository. Defaults to "envoyproxy/envoy".
    - `proxy.image. tag` the tag of the proxy image.
    - `proxy.image.pullPolicy` the proxy image pull policy. Defaults to "IfNotPresent".
  
  - `proxy.resources` specifies the proxy ressources. The proxy is configured to shed traffic before using 500MB of RAM, so that's a resonable memory limit.  It doesn't need much CPU.

    - `proxy.resources.requests`

      - `proxy.resources.requests.cpu` defaults to 100m
      - `proxy.resources.requests.memory` defaults to 512Mi

    - `proxy.resources.limits.memory` sets the proxy memory limit. defaults to 512Mi.

  - `proxy.labels`  list any additional labels to add to the pods.  These are also added to the deployment and service selectors.

  - `proxy.annotations` list any additional annotations to add to the pods.

  - `proxy.service` this section configure the service that routes traffic to the proxy.

     - `proxy.service.type` The type of service can be **ClusterIP**, **NodePort**, or **LoadBalancer**. Defaults to ClusterIP.

         - If the service is a **LoadBalancer**, you can specify the IP `proxy.service.loadBalancerIP` address to use, the port to serve plain HTTP traffic on `proxy.service.httpPort` (defaults to 80), the port to serve HTTPS traffic on `proxy.service.httpsPort` (defaults to 443), if enabled below.
         - If the service is a **NodePort**, you can specify the port to receive HTTP traffic on `proxy.service.httpNodePort` (defaults to 30080), and `proxy.service.httpsNodePort` (defaults to 30443).

     - `proxy.service.annotations` list any additional annotations to add.

     - `proxy.service.labels` list any additional labels to add to the service itself (not the selector!).

     - `proxy.service.legacyPorts` The proxy can also serve each backend service on a numbered port, and will do so for any port not numbered 0.  If this service is of type NodePort, the port numbers will be used for the node port, and will need to be in the node port range.
    
        - `proxy.service.legacyPorts.console` defaults to 0, legacy 30080, conflicts with default httpNodePort
        - `proxy.service.legacyPorts.grpc` defaults to 0, legacy 30650
        - `proxy.service.legacyPorts.s3Gateway` defaults to 0, legacy 30600
        - `proxy.service.legacyPorts.oidc` defaults to 0, legacy 30657
        - `proxy.service.legacyPorts.identity` defaults to 0, legacy 30658
        - `proxy.service.legacyPorts.metrics` defaults to 0, legacy 30656

  - `proxy.tls.enabled` enable TLS (SSL, HTTPS) serving when `true`.  Enabling TLS is incompatible with support for legacy ports (you can't get a generally-trusted certificate for port numbers), and disables support for cleartext communication (cleartext requests will redirect to the secure server, and HSTS headers are set to prevent downgrade attacks).

  - `proxy.tls.secretName` The secret containing "tls.key" and "tls.crt" keys that contain PEM-encoded private key and certificate material.  Generate one with "kubectl create secret tls <name> --key=tls.key --cert=tls.cert".  This format is compatible with the secrets produced by cert-manager.
 