## pachctl



### Synopsis

Access the Pachyderm API.

Environment variables:
  PACH_CONFIG=<path>, the path where pachctl will attempt to load your pach config.
  JAEGER_ENDPOINT=<host>:<port>, the Jaeger server to connect to, if PACH_TRACE is set
  PACH_TRACE={true,false}, If true, and JAEGER_ENDPOINT is set, attach a
    Jaeger trace to any outgoing RPCs


### Options

```
  -h, --help       help for pachctl
      --no-color   Turn off colors.
  -v, --verbose    Output verbose logs
```

### SEE ALSO

* [pachctl auth](pachctl_auth.md)	 - Auth commands manage access to data in a Pachyderm cluster
* [pachctl completion](pachctl_completion.md)	 - Print or install terminal completion code.
* [pachctl config](pachctl_config.md)	 - Manages the pachyderm config.
* [pachctl copy](pachctl_copy.md)	 - Copy a Pachyderm resource.
* [pachctl create](pachctl_create.md)	 - Create a new instance of a Pachyderm resource.
* [pachctl debug](pachctl_debug.md)	 - Debug commands for analyzing a running cluster.
* [pachctl delete](pachctl_delete.md)	 - Delete an existing Pachyderm resource.
* [pachctl deploy](pachctl_deploy.md)	 - Deploy a Pachyderm cluster.
* [pachctl diff](pachctl_diff.md)	 - Show the differences between two Pachyderm resources.
* [pachctl edit](pachctl_edit.md)	 - Edit the value of an existing Pachyderm resource.
* [pachctl enterprise](pachctl_enterprise.md)	 - Enterprise commands enable Pachyderm Enterprise features
* [pachctl exit](pachctl_exit.md)	 - Exit the pachctl shell.
* [pachctl extract](pachctl_extract.md)	 - Extract Pachyderm state to stdout or an object store bucket.
* [pachctl finish](pachctl_finish.md)	 - Finish a Pachyderm resource.
* [pachctl flush](pachctl_flush.md)	 - Wait for the side-effects of a Pachyderm resource to propagate.
* [pachctl fsck](pachctl_fsck.md)	 - Run a file system consistency check on pfs.
* [pachctl garbage-collect](pachctl_garbage-collect.md)	 - Garbage collect unused data.
* [pachctl get](pachctl_get.md)	 - Get the raw data represented by a Pachyderm resource.
* [pachctl glob](pachctl_glob.md)	 - Print a list of Pachyderm resources matching a glob pattern.
* [pachctl inspect](pachctl_inspect.md)	 - Show detailed information about a Pachyderm resource.
* [pachctl list](pachctl_list.md)	 - Print a list of Pachyderm resources of a specific type.
* [pachctl logs](pachctl_logs.md)	 - Return logs from a job.
* [pachctl mount](pachctl_mount.md)	 - Mount pfs locally. This command blocks.
* [pachctl port-forward](pachctl_port-forward.md)	 - Forward a port on the local machine to pachd. This command blocks.
* [pachctl put](pachctl_put.md)	 - Insert data into Pachyderm.
* [pachctl restart](pachctl_restart.md)	 - Cancel and restart an ongoing task.
* [pachctl restore](pachctl_restore.md)	 - Restore Pachyderm state from stdin or an object store.
* [pachctl resume](pachctl_resume.md)	 - Resume a stopped task.
* [pachctl run](pachctl_run.md)	 - Manually run a Pachyderm resource.
* [pachctl shell](pachctl_shell.md)	 - Run the pachyderm shell.
* [pachctl start](pachctl_start.md)	 - Start a Pachyderm resource.
* [pachctl stop](pachctl_stop.md)	 - Cancel an ongoing task.
* [pachctl subscribe](pachctl_subscribe.md)	 - Wait for notifications of changes to a Pachyderm resource.
* [pachctl undeploy](pachctl_undeploy.md)	 - Tear down a deployed Pachyderm cluster.
* [pachctl unmount](pachctl_unmount.md)	 - Unmount pfs.
* [pachctl update](pachctl_update.md)	 - Change the properties of an existing Pachyderm resource.
* [pachctl update-dash](pachctl_update-dash.md)	 - Update and redeploy the Pachyderm Dashboard at the latest compatible version.
* [pachctl version](pachctl_version.md)	 - Print Pachyderm version information.

###### Auto generated by spf13/cobra on 4-Nov-2020
